K1 Area Map Fixes - troubleshooting
===================================

First, the reassuring bit. This patcher does all its checking before it writes
anything. If it stops and tells you something, your game has not been touched.
And if a write doesn't come out right, it says so and points you at your
backup instead of pretending it worked. There is no "half-patched" state to
get stuck in.

Every run also writes last-run-log.txt next to Install.bat, with the full
technical detail of what happened. You never need to read it. It's the thing
to attach if you report a problem.


MESSAGES YOU MIGHT GET, AND WHAT THEY MEAN
------------------------------------------

"Not ready yet - two other mods have to go first"
    UniWS and KotOR High Resolution Menus have to be installed before this.
    They're the mods that actually change your resolution; this one only
    fixes the map afterwards. The README has both, with links.

"This isn't the version of the game this mod can patch"
    On Steam: your swkotor.exe is the locked one Steam ships. No mod can
    edit it - not this one, not UniWS, not the menus mod. Install the
    KOTOR Editable Executable first (link in the README), then the other
    two, then this.

    On GOG: this shouldn't happen - GOG's own swkotor.exe (v1.03) already
    works directly, no unlocking needed. You're most likely on a different
    patch/language build, or the old 4-CD retail disc, which this patcher
    doesn't recognise. See "More info\TECHNICAL.txt" for the exact byte
    count it expects.

"I couldn't find your KOTOR folder"
    Drag your KOTOR folder onto Install.bat and let go. That's the folder
    with swkotor.exe in it.

"Your menu files and your game don't match"
    Your game is set for one resolution and the menu files in your Override
    folder were made for another. This is the most common mistake in this
    kind of mod. Copy the menu files for the right resolution into Override
    and try again.

"A menu file the game needs is missing"
    The high-res menus mod hasn't been run, or its menu files were never
    copied into your Override folder. It's not enough to run its patcher -
    you also have to copy the menu files for your resolution.

"Something has already changed the part of the game this mod patches"
    Some other exe mod got there first, and it isn't one this recognises.
    It won't guess. Put back an unmodified swkotor.exe, redo UniWS and the
    menus mod, then run this.

"A previous install didn't finish"
    Run Uninstall.bat, then try again. It refuses to patch on top of a
    half-finished install because that really would break the game.

"This mod is already installed"
    Not a problem. Run Uninstall.bat first if you want to install it again.

"This download is damaged"
    The map data doesn't match its own checksum. Download the mod again.

"Heads up: Kotor Patch Manager is installed here"
    Not an error - it carries on. But if you have KPM's "KotorUniResPatch"
    switched on, turn it off. It fixes the same map this does, and with both
    on the map comes out wrong. See COMPATIBILITY.txt.


PROBLEMS IN THE GAME
--------------------

The map is off to one side, or hanging off the screen
    That's the high-res menus mod not finishing its own job, and it happens
    with or without this mod. Install this mod and it fixes it - it'll tell
    you it's doing so. (If you'd rather that mod did its own job, run its
    hires_patcher.pl instead of its .exe, which needs Perl.)

The minimap is black or missing
    This mod can't cause that. It specifically avoids the change that does,
    because that exact thing went wrong twice while building it. Suspect
    another exe mod. Run Uninstall.bat and see if it's still black - if it
    is, this wasn't it.

The map looks doubly stretched, or markers are wildly off
    Almost certainly Kotor Patch Manager's KotorUniResPatch or Flawless
    Widescreen running at the same time. See COMPATIBILITY.txt.

A map note is still in the wrong place
    250 notes are corrected out of the 340 in the game. Ones that weren't
    reviewed are left exactly as BioWare shipped them. Expected, not a bug.
    But most of them were moved by hand, so if you notice some strange placement
    it is worth reporting to us.

The game won't start after patching
    Run Uninstall.bat. That puts your original game file back. Then please
    report it, with last-run-log.txt and installed.json attached.


WINDOWS AND STEAM
-----------------

"Windows protected your PC" when I run Install.bat
    Windows says that about any program without a paid code signature, which
    is every small mod tool. Click "More info", then "Run anyway". If you'd
    rather not, run the Python source instead - see the bottom of this file.

My antivirus deleted it or flagged it
    Two things here look suspicious to antivirus heuristics without being
    suspicious: the patcher is a packaged Python program, and it grows a
    section of an executable. Both are normal for this kind of mod. That's
    why the release is a folder rather than one big self-extracting exe, why
    the Python source is included, and why SHA256SUMS.txt lists a checksum
    for every file.

Steam's "verify integrity of game files" deleted my patched game
    Steam replaces any exe it doesn't recognise. It'll do this to any exe
    mod, not just this one. Keep a copy of your patched swkotor.exe outside
    the game folder and copy it back in afterwards.

It says to unzip the download first
    You opened the zip and double-clicked Install.bat inside it. Windows
    allows that, but it runs from a temporary folder it deletes later, taking
    Uninstall.bat with it. Right-click the zip, "Extract All...", and run
    Install.bat from the folder that comes out.

I deleted the mod folder and now I want to uninstall
    Download the mod again, unzip it, and run Uninstall.bat. Your backup is
    not in that folder - it's in %LOCALAPPDATA%\K1AreaMapFixes - so a fresh
    copy of the mod finds it and puts your game back.

The game runs at the wrong resolution
    swkotor.ini has to match what UniWS and the menus mod were set to. This
    mod reads your game and your menu files but doesn't touch the ini.

Everything is blurry, or the mouse is offset, on a high-DPI screen
    Right-click swkotor.exe, Properties, Compatibility, "Change high DPI
    settings", and set the scaling override to Application. Nothing to do
    with this mod.


CHANGING RESOLUTION LATER
-------------------------
    1. Uninstall.bat
    2. put back an unmodified swkotor.exe
    3. UniWS, then the high-res menus mod, at the new resolution
    4. copy that resolution's menu files into Override
    5. Install.bat

Step 1 isn't optional. This mod checks that the values it's about to change
are untouched, so it will refuse rather than stack a second set of changes on
the first.


RUNNING IT WITHOUT THE PACKAGED PROGRAM
---------------------------------------
You don't have to run our exe. The patcher is a Python script and it's here:

    python "More info\source\install.py"
    python "More info\source\revert.py"

That does exactly what Install.bat and Uninstall.bat do. Needs Python 3.8 or
newer, plus the capstone and keystone packages:

    python -m pip install capstone keystone-engine


REPORTING A PROBLEM
-------------------
Attach two files:

    last-run-log.txt                            next to Install.bat
    %LOCALAPPDATA%\K1AreaMapFixes\installed.json   if it exists

Between them they record your resolution, every change made, the checksums
before and after, and where your backup went. That's usually enough to work
out what happened without a back-and-forth.

Both name the folder your game is installed in, so if you'd rather not post
that publicly, say so and send them privately instead.

Be aware that both files contain the path to your game folder, so if that
includes your Windows username, it'll be in there.
